Hello everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lobs, and
today I'm joined by Doctor Colleen Murphy. She is
James A. Elkins Junior Professor in the Life Sciences
and professor of molecular biology and director of the
Louis Siegler Institute for Integrative Genomics at Princeton University.
And today we're going to talk about her book,
How We Age The Science of Longevity. So, Doctor
Murphy, welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to
everyone. Thanks for having me, Ricardo.
So, uh, first of all, what is the science
of aging and longevity? What kinds of questions do
you ask there?
Yeah, so I think that um it's helpful to
kind of distinguish two areas. There's, um, There's basically
the science, which is all the stuff that we
do in labs to try to understand sort of
the regulation of longevity and aging. And for that
work, we do a lot of molecular biology, we
do genetics, we use a lot of model systems.
And then, there's the other part, which I think
most people are very familiar with is more of
this like, um, Like people taking some of that
information and trying to extract and use it for
themselves and so, um, you know, people who change
their diet according to things that they've read and
stuff like so I just wanna make sure that
we understand that I'm not like a self-help guru.
I'm not, um. I'm not gonna like, sell you
some supplements. I'm just, uh, my interest is in
trying to understand what do we really know about
how aging is regulated and how can we, you
know, later on, think about like, how can we
apply that? But my expertise is more in the,
the science end of things.
Uh, YEAH, so you mentioned there, and that is
a very important point that you're, of course not
a self-help guru and you're not trying to sell
supplements or anything like that. So what is your
view about those kind of pop science or self-help
books on aging that focus on things like eating,
weight, exercise, and
things
like
that? I mean, look, some of that is deeply
rooted in. Uh, SCIENCE that we is very well
accepted and very well tested, so I don't wanna
pooh pooh all of that. Um, I do think
there's kind of a range of informed thought to
just like people just, uh, you know, biohacking themselves
and stuff like that. So I think, you know,
I don't wanna be dismissive of there's actually, you
know, good science. It has to do with diet
and and exercise and things, and I do think
there's things that we can do to help make
our lives longer and healthier. Um, THERE'S stuff that
we can do for ourselves, and that's, you know,
kind of healthy. And then, um, but there's lots
of things that really haven't really even come online
yet, these, you know, scientific discoveries that we're making
that still haven't. Yet been developed into, um, into
drugs. And so, I think that we need to
make sure that we remember that the science of
aging, we're not done with it. We're not finished,
and we don't know all the answers yet. And
so, anyone who tells you that they do know
all the answers, they're not being honest with you.
So, um, yeah, there's a lot of great science
and there's still things that are, are, we're, we're
discovering that can really help people eventually become very
healthy.
Uh, YEAH, tell us more about that. In what
ways can the study of aging help our society?
OK. So I think one of the biggest uh
Ideas that was helpful is how can we improve
the quality of our life, right? So there's kind
of, and there's always been, you know, I think
for the past like 3 decades, there's been this
discussion and almost like a fake argument discussing like,
should we make people live longer or live healthier,
as if there's a trade-off between the two. In
fact, In most cases, you know, we know that
centenarians are more likely to have suffered from fewer,
um, age-related diseases, despite even sometimes having the genes
for those. So that's really fascinating. That was work
done by Niram Bartelli's lab a while ago. And
so, um, I think there's this like mistaken or
maybe just for the sake of having a debate,
this mistaken thought that we have to either pick
lifespan extension or health span. I'm personally interested in
very specific aspects of aging. I'm very interested in
cognitive decline and reproductive decline. And so, um, we
can talk about those as aspects of aging, um,
But, you know, I think, you know, I, I
saw this debate renewed just like I think in
the past week about health span versus lifespan. I
don't know. It's just kind of uninteresting at some
point because we help people live healthier, better lives.
In most cases, that's gonna stretch out the healthy
part of their lifespan, and it's gonna end up
extending lifespan as well. So I, I think that's
just something that people like to argue about. I
don't think it's really very productive.
Yeah, I mean, I guess that's one of the
reasons why many people think that perhaps there's a
trade-off between living longer and having more healthy years
in their lives is that we just, I mean,
in our own lives get across many people, family,
friends, and others that, uh, I mean, there are
still many people out there that their last few
decades are very. Complicated with lots of disease, lots
of comorbidities, and all of that, and they, it's
not very pleasant, uh, last decades of life, I
guess.
Yeah, so, um, I think maybe the better way
to think of that is that we used to
have really, really high rates of cardiovascular disease and
so people would drop dead of a heart attack
much earlier than they would. So now we have
statins and other things that try to treat some
of those. So people are outliving that phase. And
so, yeah, they're gonna necessarily, if we don't um
do other things to help people live healthier, they're
gonna eventually get some of those age-related diseases. But
again, I'm not sure that it's better that if
somebody drops dead of 53 of a heart attack,
instead, now in their 70s, they have some of
their comorbidities. So I, I think people have kind
of forgotten that and I think forgotten about things
like public health where people just live longer because
they survived through childhood now, right? So. I mean,
that's a good thing. So I, I understand that
people don't want to have a poor, uh, end
of life, and I think that we can, that's
kind of gonna be the goal in the next,
you know, decades of research is how can we
make that, uh, that part of life healthier. But
I don't think that it's a trade-off. It's not,
I mean, people are living longer because they're not
dying of those early, early aging or even childhood
diseases now. So, and that's all good.
Yeah, uh, but is there a biological limit to
how long we can expect to live?
Um, OK. So the research that's been done on
that, we have to remember, is all in the
absence of anything that's been done to extend lifespan.
So, for example, a person who lives to be
114 years old today, it's not usually because they
have You know, been taking rapamycin or metformin or
something like that. It's beca it's, it's, that's basically
all genetics, right? So that's a genetic lottery. We
don't yet know what's going to happen to this
next generation of people who have been on lifespan
extending, even if we think of like statins or
I'd say now GLP-1 agonists, um, what's gonna happen
with their lifespans? I don't think we know. So,
the work that's been done, this, the demographic studies
that have been done, Haven't been done on people
that have benefited from any of the science of
longevity that we've been working on. So there may
be a genetic limit, maybe not, that's been debated
by demographers, um, for good reason, um, but it
doesn't mean that's gonna always be the case.
OK. And so why do we age? I mean,
what's the reason behind it?
I mean, that's a big, so why is a
kind of a bad question to ask a scientist?
Because um we only can look at We can
look at underlying mechanisms, we can look at things.
Why is more of a philosophical question, why we
age? I mean, we could say evolutionarily, right? So,
every organism is optimized to End up propagating the
most of its progeny. So evolutionary fitness really has
to do with not lifespan. It has to do
with optimizing how, how much we reproduce given the
times that we have. So it doesn't make sense,
for example, to have progeny in a case where
there's, they're not gonna have any, um, nutrients in
which to survive, right? So organisms then have to
ask them, like, figure out how to adapt to.
Uh, LOW nutrient conditions, stressful conditions, and so, some
of those genetic pathways, molecular pathways that are, are
for that adaptation, sometimes they end up slowing down
reproduction, and the side effect basically is extended longevity.
So, there are really, unless you're looking at an
organism that can reproduce until the end of its
life, something like a sea urchin, those, almost no
organisms have um extended longevity. Because of, uh, well,
for, uh, for an evolutionary purpose, because all that's
post-reproductive lifespan. So, we have to really understand how
do animals adapt to stress and how do they
deal with, uh, reproductive fitness in order to understand
anything about why they've survived, and that's different from
lifespan regulation.
OK, but then why do we have post-reproductive lifespan?
I mean, from an evo from an evolutionary perspective,
do we understand that?
Um, I would say it's still being studied. So
if you were a sociologist, you'd say it's because
of the grandmother hypothesis, this idea that, um, grandmothers
actually help with the survival of their grand progeny.
Um, THE *** in that armor is that, um,
Actually, a nice, uh, it's kind of amazing, an
undergraduate in my lab years ago did a nice
study where he just asked the question, do you
have to take care of your young, grand progeny,
in order to have an extended post-reproductive lifespan? And
what he discovered was that in fact, there's lots
of organisms, including C. ELEGANS that have long post-reproductive
lifespans, and as far as we know, they do
not care for their, uh, grand progeny, OK? So
that suggests that this long post-reproductive lifespan evolved many
times, even the absence of this, you know, what
we'd call the grandmother hypothesis. So, Um, and that
more has to do with how they reproduce. So,
what we, what, you know, really George found was
this kind of interesting connection between the size of
the progeny inside the mother and the mother, OK?
So, his data suggests that he looked at this
huge range of animals. So, all the mammals were
kind of in one little box at the top
of this graph. But if you look at a
huge range of animals, um, all the way from
like sea elegans, you have like, he had all
kinds of lizards and birds and, um, Uh, sea
urchins. What he found was that the post-reproductive lifespan
actually scales, uh, with the ratio of the progeny
size to the mother. OK? So, think of it
this way, the bigger the progeny are, The harder
it is for the mother to, like, have those
projects without killing herself. And in fact, in humans,
you know, humans, our heads have evolved to be
so big that we don't kill 100% of mothers
who have them, but like some, you know, uh,
maternal mortality is a real thing. OK. So, when
we look at that, we can see that um
animals that have progeny all until like until they're,
those are actually microscopic progeny. So, like that ratio
is very small, so they have a very small
post-reproductive lifespan, OK? So, it really has to do
with reproduction. And how the mode of that the
animal reproduces, and that kind of explains this post-reproductive
lifespan. It has very little to do with like
longevity pathways. It has all to do with reproduction.
And that's kind of been ignored, I think, in
the aging field a lot in the longevity field,
um, Yeah. So, I, I think there's more attention
that should be paid to actually the reproductive part
of lifespan, and that can help us understand, should
we extrapolate from this organism to that organism? Is
it the same or do they just use entirely
different reproductive strategies that then help modulate and adapt,
uh, their, their, uh, longevity in response? I hope
that made some sense.
Yes, yes, it totally made sense. So, but why
are there sex differences in longevity and aging?
Actually, you know, that's another thing you could say
with humans for a human to reproduce entirely different
situation for men than for women, right? And so,
actually, um, You can kind of see that men
can reproduce pretty late. They have a pretty a
fairly relatively short reproductive aging like lifespan or post-reproductive
lifespan. Women have a longer one. I mean, that
it's really, again, evolutionarily, the optimization for whatever reproductive
strategy they have. So, um, I would say that's
really where you'll see the differences. Now, in humans,
of course, uh there's a lot of things that
are shared. And so, if somebody tells you to
exercise, it's probably not gonna be vastly different between
men and women. Um, BUT it is true that
when it comes to things like hormones, for example,
um, Richard Miller, he found through this intervention testing
program, his lab showed that, because they've been testing
all these different compounds, right? And so, in mice,
which again, is a mammalian system that we can
um draw some parallels with humans, they found that
some of the drugs that they Look at actually
have only extend the lifespan of males or females.
So there are sex-specific differences, and again, that probably
comes back to what they're regulating in the reproductive
system that then feeds into the, the, uh, longevity
mechanism.
Mhm. Uh, SO you told us about other animals.
I mean, what have you, we learned about aging
through, uh, model systems and what are the best
models to study aging?
What are the best models? I'm not sure it's
the best model, although I have a, I'll tell
you my favorite in a second. Um, WE'VE learned
almost everything that we know about longevity and aging
from studying model systems. I wanna say that right
now because, um, I think it's very misguided. Uh,
I just have to say as a scientist right
now, what's happening and gutting of the NIH and
taking away funding from model system research is really
gonna kill us like, pretty rapidly. And so, um,
What we know about aging is almost entirely from
model systems. We've discovered, there's been hypothesis testing that
we can do at a rapid time scale. There's
discovery of genetic mechanisms that are extremely well conserved
from invertebrates all the way up to humans. And
of course, we can't really do experiments in humans.
So, when we know something from humans, it's usually
from a large demographic study. So, from genetics, that
way, Um, it's from, uh, you know, looking at
studies where we're looking at a broad swath of
humans. Um, WE can't do the kind of tests
that we need to do. THAT we, we do
in model systems. So, I, I really think that
people, when they, when they, when we can say
something that happens in humans, other than like genome-wide
association studies, that kind of thing, um, really, what
we know about a lot of things is from
model systems. And we have invertebrates, we have C.
ELEGANS and Drosophila, so worms and flies. Um, A
ton of work that's been done in mice, but
often I have to say we discover it first
in C. ELEGANS, then flies, and then, then mice,
and so that's, and that's really how you should
do it because our, um, just solin and C.
ELEGANS are cheap, and we can do a lot
of experiments really quickly. You don't want to spend,
and ethically, it's like a lot easier to think
about that as well, staying out of vertebrates, OK,
now. Uh, I do have a favorite new model
system that I don't work on. Um, THAT'S the
African turquoise killifish. And the reason I love that,
so that's work that, um, Dario Valenzano and Anne
Brune and others have worked on. And that's really
cool because it's a vertebrate, so you have a
vertebrate system, but very short-lived. Within a few months,
you can get all this information. And so then
you're more on the time scale now of Drosophila.
And so you can do experiments that actually like,
then very directly have relevance for, for mammals. And
so, I really love that and um I'm too
lazy to start a new model system myself, but
I really, I really enjoy learning about the experiments
that are done in that system because I think
it's really gonna move the field forward.
OK, but then what kinds of limitations should people
keep in mind when they read scientific literature on
aging in other animals? I mean, to what extent
can we extrapolate from other animals to humans?
I mean, that's a great question. Um, ALL right.
So, you know, there's this, this trade-off in science
where you can Do fast, rigorous experiments very quickly
and really know the answer in, and it kind
of gets less so as you go higher organisms
because it becomes slower. So, for mice, you you
have like, that's like we're talking about 2, 2.5
years for the longest-lived mice. Um, YEAH, people are
still doing really good experiments. Uh, IN mice, you
have to think about, um, is this answer gonna
be true? If I do it in another strain
of mice, for example, um, there are these, uh,
a lot of the lab mice are one strain,
one genetic background. And so the question is, does
it, you know, if I give this treatment, does
it also work in another background, another strain? And
so people have been getting around that by looking
at, um, using these mice that have more genetic
variation, kind of like people. And so that would
be a follow up. Um, Yeah, I mean, there's
obviously, there's always gonna be something in a model
system that's not gonna directly translate to humans, um,
but I don't wanna pooh-pooh that too much because
I think people make a big deal about that
when it's not actually that big a deal. Like,
like we need to understand, uh, how things work,
and we can't just always say. You know, this
works in mice, right? OK, sure. But like, we've
learned a lot and we're gonna be able to,
so something that's really true and like rock solid
results in mice, um, there are follow-up experiments that
can be done with, with human tissues, with other,
like, eventually, organoids are going to be good enough
for some of these things. They're, I think they're
still being developed. Um, NON-HUMAN primates, like you want
to save the most Non-human primates, you get into
more of the ethical issues and more um expense
issues. And so, I don't think we want to
start pretending that we can't trust anything in mice
and we have to do everything in non-human primates.
On the other hand, I also don't think that
we should jump straight to humans. Like there's this
push now to like, just, and I, I think
that's unethical as well. So, I mean, I think
everybody who reads a C. Elegance or Drosophila or
Mao's paper understands that there are limitations and that
it may not directly translate to humans, but, you
know, evolutionarily, a lot of the molecules we're talking
about are extremely well conserved. So when something has
an effect, it's pretty likely that it will have
an effect. It may be more complicated, involve more
tissues, but, um, most of the people are doing
it like, I think we understand that. Um, AND
so I don't wanna be too critical of Extrapolating
information from all these model systems to humans because
I think there's always gonna be a grain of
truth there. That's the hope at least.
So earlier when you mentioned uh super centenarians, you
said that for example, if someone lives for 114
years that it's probably due to genetic, uh, to
genetic lottery. I mean, it's just genetic luck, but,
uh, I mean, do we already know. Something more
about the secrets, let's call them that of centenarians'
long lifespans, because I'm asking you that because anytime
that someone lives that long, of course, journalists go
and ask them what's their secret, and I mean
their answers are all over the place.
Yeah, so exactly. In fact, actually it's hilarious to
read this, and the vast majority of them, I
don't know if you've noticed, um, mention alcohol. Which
is hilarious. It's not a recommendation that anyone else
would make. And, um, all the women mentioned staying
away from men, which is probably just a, a,
a coping mechanism maybe at some point because like,
uh, the women tend to live, you know, like,
usually 9 of the 10 longest-lived human beings right
now are women, OK. I don't And for them,
that may be very true. But, here, um, Right.
So, these are people who really have won the
genetic lottery because it turns out if you look
in their genomes, right? So, we know from genome-wide
association studies of these exceptionally long-lived people that there's
a handful of genes that are probably associated with
that, right? So, there's, um, And so, we know
what those are, but if you look in the
gen the, their genetic backgrounds, they often will still
have the deleterious mutations associated with other things. In
fact, some of them even have the APOE4 allele
that for other non-centenarians, gives them Alzheimer's. So, there's
something kind of amazing about the genetics. And so,
that's why I'm saying, I don't think it's, it
really is a lottery in the sense that they
didn't necessarily do something. That's gonna help them live
long. It's all the things that they attribute to
living long, like, you know, eating this, you know,
one boiled egg a day or something, you know,
stuff like that. It just, it, it can't, that
can't be believed, right? And you can see that
in their responses because it's so varied, right? A
lot of them are smokers, you know, no one
else gets away with that, um. Yeah, so, uh,
it's not really a secret in what they've done.
I think they've really just really lucked out. And
then it brings the question, what can we learn?
Well, we can learn the genetics, but I don't
think we can learn lifestyle things from that. I
think it's gonna be interesting in the next couple
of years where we figure out, um, from people
who are, do not have those genetics. And I
think we're seeing that in some countries where people
are living really long. It really is due to
lifestyle differences, right? And so, the lifestyle differences, that's
what we can all learn from. So, that, that's
something where we'll, we'll And that'll probably lead to
better health as well. So, I think, um, it's
been interesting to see that, but there's nothing you
can do if you don't have the right alleles
that a centenarian has, there's, uh, I don't think
anyone's gonna go in and CRISPR their genome, right?
So, it's too late for that, but we can
learn from the lifestyle changes, and maybe there's gonna
be eventually a drug. For example, if you have
a certain allele and it does some job, Um,
then maybe that's something that's worth studying for like
developing a longevity drug. So I think that, and
they probably, I'm not the first one to think
of that. I'm sure many people are already working
on that. So that's really what we can learn
from those centenarians, not really like what they ate
or drank or smoked or Or anything like that.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, please don't think that smoking or
drinking will increase your life. Exactly. Uh, SO, uh,
in, in the book you talk about longevity pathways.
What are those and what do we know about
them?
Yeah. So, sort of as I alluded to earlier,
a lot of things that we think of as
longevity pathways, and we taught them that because we
found, uh, for example, in Cal is a mutants.
So, Cynthia Kenyon identified daf-2, so that's an insulin
receptor. And, um, well, Gary Roen actually cloned it
and then identified as daf-2, but Uh, as an
insulin receptor, but the daf-2 mutant lives really long.
It lives twice as long, and the animals are
super healthy. And in pretty much every assay we've
ever done, we found that they have better memory,
they have better learning, even with age, they have
better learning and memory, like, proportionally longer, they have,
um, They are able to reproduce longer because the
quality of their ooocytes stays higher longer. Um, Yeah.
So, they do a lot of things better. And
it's not because they necessarily, they do have a
slight delay in development, but not proportional to this
huge massive increase in lifespan. OK. So, that's an
example of a gene that was identified because of
its lifespan phenotype, so it's longevity phenotype. And um
through the years, uh, Cynthia and then other people
figured out other genes in that pathway, right? So,
we think of that pathway is something that kind
of flips the switch. Um, BUT As I mentioned
in the book, it's a little bit of a
misnomer. I call them longevity pathways, because really what
they're doing is not messing with longevity. They're allowing
the animal to tune their reproductive strategy to the
environment around them, right? So, in the wild, a
wild-type worm will, if there's not enough food or
if it, if it has like Too many nearby
neighbors, so that puts out pheromone. If it senses
too many of those or if it's too hot,
then really what it wants to do is say,
OK, this is not a good time to have
have progeny, right? So, what I want to do
is turn everything for reproduction down, but I also
want to keep my other tissues, my somatic tissues
healthy, so that when I slip things back, Back
on, I'll be healthy enough to reproduce. OK? So
now you can start seeing that there's this switch,
like this neuronal like decision that gets made, that
tells the germline what to do. So, like, slow
down making progeny, maybe don't like stretch that out,
even developmentally, maybe I slow down everything. And then
there's a signal from the germ line that tells
the body, OK, You can't come out of this
looking like an 80 year old. You gotta like
be young and healthy. So let's slow down all
those processes. Let's, let's like maintain somatic health, OK?
So then, when they come out of it, they
can reproduce. And so the, the sort of like
side benefit of that is that those animals will
now live long, OK? So that's a pathway that
makes all those decisions based on information it gets
from the environment. And the cool thing is like,
We have those same pathways. We have those same
genes. They regulate many of the same things, not
always for the exact same purpose. We can't, you
know, sense that there's like a bad environment and
then go into a dour state. But, um, if
there's low nutrients, for example, like that does turn
on autophagy and other things to help clean up
ourselves. And so, those are kind of things that
like, That's why people like these ideas of dietary
restriction cause they can kind of like turn on
some of these pathways that we know work for
these purposes of keeping an animal young and healthy
while they reproduce.
And I mean, are there already any interventions that
can be applied to these longevity pathways?
Yeah, so that's a great question. Um, In the
dietary restriction area, right? So people are very excited
about uh rapamycin and metformin and other, those kinds
of things that are in that pathway. And I
think a few of the drugs that are being
identified through these intervention testing programs and also will
eventually turn out to be like in that pathway.
But the cool thing is that's not the only
pathway, that there's multiple in parallel. Um, The diet
to the, uh, sorry, the insulin signaling pathway, I
was kind of surprised that, you know, that hasn't
been, um, as developed as you, you would think,
given the fact that we've known for like 30
years that those mutants live long. Uh, THERE was
a paper out of, I think, Australia a couple
of years ago where they found a drug that
actually does increase the longevity of mice through that
pathway. So that's pretty cool. So that suggests that
we can perhaps use the same, uh, genetic pathway
to live long. I think actually these, uh, there's
gonna be new drugs that come on that actually
are gonna be found to work through those pathways,
but they weren't developed for that reason. Um, AND
so, I, I think we don't know the answer
yet. So, it'll be an interesting Couple of years
to see where, uh, whether there's any longevity drugs
that will come online. I, I actually think that,
um, GLP-1 agonists, the reason I'm kind of excited
about those is because those are having all these
unintended effects and most of them, like 90% of
them are beneficial. And so, we'll see if any
of those trigger, I, I think people just didn't
know what they did, exactly. They knew some things,
but not all the things. And so that could
be really, uh, really interesting.
Yeah, uh, can factors that we inherit from our
ancestors affect aging? I mean, and if so, what
are these factors and how do they work?
OK, so this is where I'm gonna like deviate
from my usual model systems. I think that um,
You know, we found, you're probably asking this question,
because we found Some of these transgenerational pathways and
sea elegans, um, that seem to do with really
about survival in the face of pathogens in their
environment. So, we've seen that those C. ELEGANS can
actually pass on that information for 4 generations. Um,
I think for mammals, it's a little bit less
clear to me. It's clear that there's transgenerational information
that works really well in plants, and that may
have to do with their situation, right? Like they
have to, like, um, pass on information from past
seasons to their progeny to survive. Um,
BUT, but, but, by the, by the way, how
do they pass on that information? Is it through
epigenetics, or, yeah,
so this is all epigenetics. So in, in plants,
the primary mechanism seems to be through DNA methylation.
Um, THERE is in C elegans, there's a lot,
uh, there's a couple of different fat pathways that
involve things like histone methylation, so these epigenetic regulators
that are around the, the DNA. Um, THE pathway
we found involves smaller RNAs but may ultimately we
think might impinge on the histone methylation because worms
don't have DNA methylation, um. In humans, I think
the jury is still out, but of course, you
can't do the real, like, there's been these things
called natural experiments. And so we'll, we'll have to
see uh what exactly happens and what the mechanisms
underlying that. It's just a little bit, you know,
Obviously, you can't do the same kinds of experiments
and um in mice, I know a lot less
about that. I think there's discussion about, there's some
things that seem to be very solid results and
other things that don't seem so solid. So I
don't wanna wade into that. I think the jury
is still out. We, we'll still be looking at
that.
So at this point in time, what do we
know about the ways that we eat can influence
aging?
Um, WELL, there's the kind of obvious things, but
I think, um, and there's a general sense that
eating less would probably be good, but I think
that we need to refine some of that, like
eating less of what exactly, right? Like, um, and
that may be again the system where like, Maybe
what's true in one model system may not be
true in another, right? So, um, right, so I
think we still need to understand that better, um,
for example, you would, there's a chance that you
could eat all the calories you want to if
you had the right balance of carbohydrates, fats, and
proteins. Um, I just think we just don't fully
know that yet, um. There's also the idea of
intermittent fasting and other things, and, uh, that actually,
that's been really a kind of wild ride because
first, everybody thought that would be better, um, but
then there's more recent evidence that it's not so
great. And so, I think we need to better
understand all of these things. I mean, you could
Just take it and say, well, I'm just gonna
live my life in moderation and not eat so
much and not drink so much. So, but if
you really wanted to like just pinpoint and say,
this is the one thing I'm gonna do to
live long, actually, I think that exercise is probably
the one thing. Regardless of what we eat, and
I may be wrong down the road, but I
think that, um, there's something very important about staying
active, and, in particular, like our muscles seem to
actually do a lot of really positive things for
keeping us young and healthy. And so, um, not
just cardio, but also doing things like weight-bearing exercises.
Weightlifting, things like that, especially for older people, seems
to be extremely beneficial, even for things like bone
density. And so I think for me, I, I
focus, maybe, I don't know, just because I like
eating, but um I focus less on worrying about
what I eat and instead, um really getting enough
exercise and making sure that, that, I think that,
and every person can be different, but I think
that for most people, If they can get exercise,
it'll help them in a lot of ways that
just um constantly being obsessed with what they eat
is not gonna be that be beneficial, and they
could actually be wrong. Because we just don't know
yet.
Uh, uh, AND, and what if you exercise a
lot, but you also eat a lot, and so,
I mean, uh, uh, your BMI is high. I
mean, do you think that BMI itself is a
good enough metric?
Oh, well, BMI is a is, is a famously
bad metric, right? So someone who's in super shape.
And has really high, uh, muscle density, right, they're
gonna have a moderately high BMI that has nothing
to do with body fat. So I think we
can say in general fat cells seem to be
bad. Fat cells secrete things that are bad. So
like it's probably good to not have high fat
on our bodies, um. One thing that's unfortunate with
age is there's like, especially with menopause, there's actually
um deposition of fat that's inside. It's not so
obvious, but it surrounds our tissues, our organs and
things, and that is a little bit, seems to
be less healthy, and that's harder to get rid
of too. Um, SO, but again, perhaps one of
these things with having more, um, muscle mass actually
could be very beneficial there in fighting off some
of those detrimental effects.
So I mean at this point in time when
it comes to caloric restriction and things like intermittent
fasting, I, I'm asking you that because of course
in recent years we've heard a ton about that,
about that and many claims made about its supposed
health benefits. I mean at this point in time
we're not sure.
I don't think, I think the jury is out.
I think it's really. I think what the people
you hear enthusiastic things about caloric restriction from are
a subset of people who are gonna be very
enthusiastic about that. For a lot of people, that's
not realistic, um, I Uh, yeah. Um, AND it's
not clear that the controls have been done to
actually say whether it's healthy or not. We know
in a lab setting with mice, the calorically restricted
animals actually live longer and they seem to be
healthier. Um, WE know that that's true for rhesus
macaques as well. Um, FOR humans, of course, there
is a social element to eating. There's a, you
know, a psychological element to restricting calories. And so
I think it's just a harder thing to do
in humans. And so it's not necessarily, it's not
fun. And so some people, I, I, I know
some people who have done it, and they're very
like. DOGMATIC about it. I just, for me, I
just can't see it ever as being the thing
that we'd want people to do necessarily. There are
situations though, for example, I think that is true
that some There's been evidence that brief fasting or
dietary restriction around the time of a surgery or
certain medical treatments can be extremely beneficial. And so,
I think that's the stuff that's really interesting. If
you could increase the survival or reduce this hospital
time by doing like, or taking one of these
like, um sort of fasting diets, that would be
interesting. But as a permanent way of life, I
think it just sounds miserable. Yeah, uh,
and what is the role of DNA repair and
cell replacement and things like a telomere length and
things like that,
right, so those are each, uh, different mechanisms by
which animals have been shown to regulate aging. Telomeres
were the big deal years ago, but mostly becomes,
has to do with how How long cells can
divide, because if a cell has no ends of
its chromosomes anymore because it's been eaten back by
like reproducing, like replicating many times, they're not gonna
survive anymore. So, um, and that's called the hay
flip limit. Um, WHETHER you could actually get a
longer life out of adding more telomeres to the
end, like longer telomeres to the end of your
chromosomes, that jury is still out on that. I
think that hasn't proven to be extremely successful. Um,
DNA repair is probably really important, and one of
the GWAS, the genes that's come up in human
longevity, just actually has to do with DNA repair.
So that's probably a real thing, um, that regulates
how long we can live. And then what was
the last thing you asked about, um, uh,
cell
replacement, cell replacement. I mean, look, you know, that's
stem cells we're seeing as actually a growing, um.
Therapeutic, in fact, and we'll see how well that
works out, um.
But do you think it's a promising avenue or
not?
I think that it is. And in fact, actually,
um, yeah, let's see, how do I say this?
It, it's interesting to know. I think that the
longevity field could take a hint from, uh, from
looking at what pro athletes do. Pro athletes do
the things that make them, uh, perform best in
the fastest time like they. And if you look
at the treatments that they get, it's like, you
know, decades ahead of what you actually get, like
an average person gets in a clinic, right? And
so I think that, that's kind of interesting cause
then there's more and more of this um like
during like surgical repair that combined with uh stem
cell therapeutics. It's kind of interesting, right? So, um,
Yeah, I think that there's lots of avenues. The
thing that's aging, about the aging field that's really
interesting to me, it's, it's not gonna be just
one answer. You know, we break down in a
lot of different ways. And so a few of
these things could be really helpful, and they may
be like done in parallel. And so I think
there's like, it's kind of, um, we'll see which
ones are most. Uh, EFFICACIOUS, but I think we
can't say there's just one thing. And that's why
I kinda wanna get away from the whole caloric
restriction thing because even though that probably regulates a
bunch of different things, I think there's other things
that we're gonna be able to do that will
help people live longer.
So let me ask you about another thing that's
been on the news a lot recently and there's
been a lot of work done on it. What
about our gut microbiome? I mean, does it have
any relationship with aging or not?
OK, so the gut microbiome, that was one of
those things that's kind of like overhyped for a
long time, but there's always a grain of truth.
OK, so we know that the, the microbiome in
our gut changes with age, and actually changes with
health, OK? So that's a correlation, right? So we
have to keep that in mind. So, for example,
there is a set of bacteria that are present
in young healthy guts, right? And with age, there's
fewer of those good healthy bacteria and more of
these like less healthy ones, right? So we know
there's changes. The question becomes like what is causing
what regulates this, OK, um, and there's some really
cool experiments showing that if you could transfer, um,
microbes from the gut of healthy animals to older
or less healthy animals that you can help them
repair, OK? And so, that's actually like, that is
actually a clinical thing that's done. So, um, Uh,
FMT, so fecal microbial transfer, is actually done to,
especially in like cases where someone's entire gut has
been wiped out by an infection or, or needs
to be replaced, OK? So, there's a, you know,
so it's not fantasy, it's actually a true thing
and actually very helpful. Now, do I know whether
like the capsules that someone is selling to like
have young gut microbiome is actually useful? I, that
I don't know. And there's an uh even cooler
thought, which is that maybe we could figure out
why they're useful, right? Uh, OH, I want to
back up and say that there's a nice um
experiment that was done by um Dario Valenzano, where
they took the They wiped out in killifish, they
wiped out the gut of a micro gut microbiome
of animals, and then they replaced it with the
young microbiome, and they were extend, they extend the
lifespan of these fish. OK? So that's super cool.
OK, so it does suggest there's something there. But,
you know, it'd be nicer just to figure out
like, what are the young microbes produce? And it
seems like they produce metabolites that could be super
healthy. And so, on these short chain fatty acid,
things like that, maybe those are the key. And
so that could actually become something that would help
someone eventually. So, I think there's been a lot
of stuff where you like, there's correlation, but we
have to distinguish cause and effect, and I think
that uh the field is actually getting closer to
figuring that part out.
Right, I mean, this is just speculation on my
part, but since the gut microbiome also seems to
be affected by diet, do you think that if
we can establish a causal relationship between the gut
microbiome and aging, then, uh, diet, at least indirectly,
could also play a role
there. I think that that's probably very true. So,
and, and part of eating a better diet, especially
one that like with yogurt and things that can
actually help, that, that might be useful. Um, WHETHER
it's gonna make you live like 2 weeks longer,
2 years, that I don't know. OK, so that's,
that's what I was saying I can't really like
say that, but I think there's nothing wrong with
saying that there's actually differences in our microbiome with
age, and because of that rise in deleterious microbes,
uh, replacing them with good microbes could only be
helpful.
OK, and what, how would you characterize the current
state of longevity, uh, longevity biotech?
Well, longevity biotech is really thriving. And part of
the, the, uh, excitement is the fact that what
I just said, there's many different ways that we
can attack the problem. And so, I think, um,
as a result, some of the stuff is moving
out of academia. I mean, the academic discoveries are
still continuing. I, I actually want to say this
very clearly, if academia fails, it's gonna be really
bad for biotech because We do, like, you know,
it's like the iceberg, right? Like you need that
basis to make the decisions and discoveries that will
take things to the biotech because biotech's risky. So
you only want to take the things that are
the most likely and then help develop those, and
then eventually those will make its way into like
mainstream pharmaceutical. So, um, I think there's a ton
of interesting things going on right now. And, um,
I'm not a betting person, so I'm not gonna
say which one of those are most likely, but
I think that there's real potential for moving some
of the things that we've discovered in the past
couple of decades into real useful treatments for people.
And that's at some of the biotech and then
eventually it'll make it into, uh, into bio into
pharmaceuticals.
In your opinion, how seriously should we take those
kinds of uh experiments that some billionaires are doing
on themselves in terms of trying out many different
things to see if they can live longer?
OK, so in science, the way we do science
is we do things with controls. We change one
variable at a time. So that we can actually
interpret the results. So what you described is not
an experiment. It's just doing something. It's not gonna
lead to like, how would you know. How would
you know at the end of all these, like,
what's, what they're doing to themselves? I will say
one thing. The most effective way to live longer
is to be rich. It's sad, right, because rich
people have access to the best, best food, healthcare,
exercise, normal sleeping schedules. They are not worried about
food deserts, right? They can actually get everything they
need. And so, um, I think we'll never know
if a billionaire who's doing a million things to
themselves daily. If they live long or not, it's
gonna be due to any of the things that
they're doing to themselves. So, it's not, it's not
informative, in my opinion.
Yeah, uh, I mean, that's actually very true. Uh,
THE last time I looked at the sort of
longevity gap between rich people and poor people in
the US, it's like in the order of 10
years of difference or something like
that. Yeah, yeah, a lot of that can be
attributed to. Preventative healthcare, right? Because if you're poor,
you cannot afford to go in to see a
doctor when you start to feel kind of sick.
You might wait until you're really sick, right? Uh,
GOOD food in this country is very expensive compared
to cheap, like bad food, so there's all kinds
of, there's a million little decisions. That get made,
uh, for pretty logical choices, you know, poor people
are not illogical. They just are, they have a
limited set of options, and so they're making, doing
their best to get by, and that's not the
same set of options that a rich person has.
And so that really leads to those, uh, discrepancies
as a huge differential, as you mentioned, in lifespan.
That's right.
Yeah, and I mean if poor people, if someone
has to work 2 or 3 jobs just to
pay their bills, I mean, they don't have any
time at all to be cooking. I mean, they
just have to eat fast food most of the
time.
Or in fact, what you just mentioned, it's also
super stressful. So high stress is very bad for
us, and shift, shift work, like working late at,
like at night shifts and things, that's really messed
up. So there's all that's what I'm saying, it's
like, and it's probably cumulative. And there's even this
cumulative stress of living in a, like, being feeling
poor actually raises your stress levels. So, like, all
these things, um, so, you know, when a rich
person lives a long time, uh, I think a
lot of people want to believe it's because they've
done a good job taking care of themselves, but
it's really because of these structural inequities that are,
are, uh, You know, like if you're poor, you're
fighting up an uphill battle to live a long
time or even have a healthy life. Yeah,
yeah, and I mean, uh, uh, to be more
specific, what kinds of molecules are being targeted for
clinical treatment when it comes to waging?
Well, right now there's a lot of attention for
in the caloric restriction pathway. MTOR is really a
thing that people are trying to target through multiple
mechanisms, but in fact, there's a lot of, uh,
If you like, if I showed you a slide
of everything that is around that MTOR regulation, there's
a lot of other proteins that actually could be
targets as well, um. I'm just trying to think.
And that's probably the place where the most is
being developed, but I don't think it's where it
should be. The only, the only place where it
should be, oh, there's also autophagy, I think they're
being developed, uh, autophagy promoters, because actually, that could,
that's, you know, also the longevity field. I just
want to step back and say that the longevity
field is taking advantage of like research has been
done in a lot of areas as well, uh,
such as cancer, right? So that's where some of
the drugs that are being found to be beneficial
for cancer treatments actually turned out to be helpful
for longevity as well. Um, SENOLYTICS, so like drugs
that target senescent cells. So, senescent cells are not
just dying cells, they're actually cells that are super
unhealthy and they actually secrete things that are bad
for other cells. So, targeting, the idea is if
you target them, you get rid of them. And
I, I heard a nice story in this field
that I really like. Uh, IS that senolytics might
be helpful for people who have had childhood cancers
and they survived that, but then later on, it
turns out they have a lot of accelerated age-related
diseases. So, senolytics might be useful in helping those
people just even have a normal lifespan. So I
think there's a lot of things, and I'm probably
forgetting some because there's just so many. Like every
chapter of my book, we talked about a different
like pathway or um mechanism and like you can
imagine if you find the proteins are in the,
the genes that are responsible that they can become
new targets, right? So pharmaceutical targets, so um. That's
why I didn't just say like, you know, restriction
and we're done. There's actually really a ton of
different things that are going on. So, each one
of those, even, like if you think creatively, like
most of them could probably be developed into some
sort of uh pharmaceutical treatment.
Yeah, so just one final question then, how, how
can we develop new treatment, and I mean, what
is the best approach for, for us to develop
new, new treatments for age-related decline?
Ah, OK, so, um, so one of the barriers
that you might be aware of is this idea
that, um, aging is not considered an FDA. Treated
disease, right? And so that makes it difficult to
do things like clinical trials and so that's been
the effort by um Neer Bar Barzilai and others
to try to develop, um, car, carry out clinical
trials that you really use aging as an endpoint.
But of course, as you noted earlier in the
program, there's a lot of things that happen with
age, age-related diseases. And so, uh, one clever approach
that several companies have used is to instead like
target one of those age-related diseases and say, OK,
does my You know, does the drug that I
have, does it slow down this or that, OK?
So, for example, there's things with the eyes, right?
So, like, age-related problems with the eyes, we can
look at that. We have things like osteoarthritis, um,
lots of things that are not They're saying is
proxies of aging. So we don't have to ask
the question, does this drug make someone live longer?
We can ask, does it actually treat this disorder
that I'm, that's an age-related disorder? And if so,
then, you know, you could probably market it for
that one thing, but you might have the benefit
of living longer as well. Yeah.
OK, so the book is again How We Age,
The Science of Longevity. I'm leaving a link to
it in the description of the interview. And Doctor
Murphy, just before we go, would you like to
tell people where they can find you and your
work on the internet?
Uh, uh, YEAH, so I, um, I'm a professor
at Princeton, and so if you just look up
Princeton in my name, you'll find me. I have
a lab here and I also am the director
of the Louis Siegler Institute for Integrative Genomics, and
so, uh, that's a link there.
OK, great. So thank you so much for taking
the time to come on the show. It's been
fun to talk with you.
Nice to talk with you as well, Ricardo. Thank
you for the opportunity.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inasi Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoro, and
Hal Herz Agnon, Michel Jonathan Labrarith, John Yardston, and
Samuel Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel,
Sardusran, David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego
Londono Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro,
Adam Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka, Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov,
Zal Adrian Yei Poltonin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall, Eddin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolatti, Gabriel P
Scortez or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony
Smith, and Wiseman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg
Jarno, Luke Lovai, Georgios Theophanus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin,
David Williams, Di Acosta, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex
Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D.
Lee Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber,
Robert Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix,
Mark Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly
Johnson, Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson,
Ismael Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate
Van Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali
Mohammadi, Perpendicular, Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David
Pinsov, Sean Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A
special thanks to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank,
Lucas Stink, Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller,
Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlomon Negro,
Al Nick Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my
executive producers, Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and
Rosie. Thank you for all.